Psalm 22-31
This is a LibriVox recording.
All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain.
For more information or to volunteer, please visit LibriVox.org.
Recording by Simon Wainwright
The Book of Psalms
King James Version, Psalm 22
My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me?
Why art thou so far from helping me, and from the words of my roaring?
O my God, I cry in the daytime, but thou hearest not,
and in the night season, and am not silent.
But thou art holy, O thou that inhabitest the praises of Israel.
Our fathers trusted in thee, they trusted, and thou didst deliver them.
They cried unto thee, and were delivered.
They trusted in thee, and were not confounded.
But I am a worm, and no man, a reproach of men, and despised of the people.
All they that see me laugh me to scorn, they shoot out the lip.
They shake the head, saying, he trusted on the Lord that he would deliver him.
Let him deliver him, seeing he delighted in him.
But thou art he that took me out of the womb.
Thou didst make me hope when I was upon my mother's breast.
I was cast upon thee from the womb, thou art my God, from my mother's belly.
Be not far from me, for trouble is near, for there is none to help.
Many bulls have compassed me, strong bulls of Bashan have beset me round.
They gaped upon me with their mouths, as a ravening and a roaring lion.
I am poured out like water, and all my bones are out of joint.
My heart is like wax, it is melted in the midst of my bowels.
My strength is dried up like a potsherd, and my tongue cleaveth to my jaws.
And thou hast brought me into the dust of death.
For dogs have compassed me, the assembly of the wicked have enclosed me.
They pierced my hands and my feet.
I may tell all my bones, they look and stare upon me.
They part my garments among them, and cast lots upon my vesture.
But be not thou far from me, O Lord, O my strength haste thee to help me.
Deliver my soul from the sword, my darling from the power of the dog.
Save me from the lion's mouth, for thou hast heard me from the horns of the unicorns.
I will declare thy name unto my brethren, in the midst of the congregation will I praise thee.
Ye that fear the Lord, praise him.
All ye the seed of Jacob, glorify him and fear him.
All ye the seed of Israel.
For he hath not despised nor abhorred the affliction of the afflicted.
Neither hath he hid his face from him.
But when he cried unto him, he heard, My praise shall be of thee in the great congregation.
I will pay my vows before them that fear him.
The meek shall eat and be satisfied.
They shall praise the Lord that seek him.
Your heart shall live forever.
All the ends of the world shall remember and turn unto the Lord.
And all the kindreds of the nations shall worship before thee.
For the kingdom is the Lord's and he is the governor among the nations.
All they that be fat upon earth shall eat and worship.
All they that go down to the dust shall bow before him.
And none can keep alive his own soul.
A seed shall serve him.
It shall be accounted to the Lord for a generation.
They shall come and shall declare his righteousness unto a people that shall be born that he hath done this.
Psalm 23
The Lord is my shepherd.
I shall not want.
He maketh me to lie down in green pastures.
He leadeth me beside the still waters.
He restoreth my soul.
He leadeth me in the paths of righteousness for his name's sake.
Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil.
For thou art with me.
Thy rod and thy staff, they comfort me.
Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of mine enemies.
Thou anointest my head with oil.
My cup runneth over.
Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life.
And I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever.
Psalm 24
The earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof, the world and they that dwell therein.
For he hath founded it upon the seas and established it upon the floods.
Who shall ascend into the hill of the Lord, or who shall stand in his holy place?
He that hath clean hands and a pure heart, who hath not lifted up his soul unto vanity, nor sworn deceitfully.
He shall receive the blessing from the Lord, and righteousness from the God of his salvation.
This is the generation of them that seek him, that seek thy face, O Jacob, Selah.
Lift up your heads, O ye gates, and be ye lift up, ye everlasting doors, and the King of Glory shall come in.
Who is this King of Glory, the Lord strong and mighty, the Lord mighty in battle?
Lift up your heads, O ye gates, even lift them up, ye everlasting doors, and the King of Glory shall come in.
Who is this King of Glory, the Lord of hosts?
He is the King of Glory, Selah.
Psalm 25.
Unto thee, O Lord, do I lift up my soul.
O my God, I trust in thee, let me not be ashamed, let not mine enemies triumph over me.
Yea, let none that wait on thee be ashamed, let them be ashamed which transgress without cause.
Show me thy ways, O Lord, teach me thy paths.
Lead me in thy truth and teach me, for thou art the God of my salvation.
On thee do I wait all the day.
Remember, O Lord, thy tender mercies and thy loving kindnesses, for they have been ever of old.
Remember not the sins of my youth, nor my transgressions.
According to thy mercy, remember thou me, for thy goodness' sake, O Lord.
Good and upright is the Lord, therefore will he teach sinners in the way.
The meek will he guide in judgment, and the meek will he teach his way.
All the paths of the Lord are mercy and truth unto such as keep his covenant and his testimonies.
For thy name's sake, O Lord, pardon my iniquity, for it is great.
What man is he that feareth the Lord?
Him shall he teach in the way that he shall choose.
His soul shall dwell at ease, and his seed shall inherit the earth.
The secret of the Lord is with them that fear him, and he will show them his covenant.
Mine eyes are ever toward the Lord, for he shall pluck my feet out of the net.
Turn thee unto me and have mercy upon me, for I am desolate and afflicted.
The troubles of my heart are enlarged. O, bring thou me out of my distresses.
Look upon mine affliction and my pain, and forgive all my sins.
Consider mine enemies, for they are many, and they hate me with cruel hatred.
O, keep my soul and deliver me. Let me not be ashamed, for I put my trust in thee.
Let integrity and uprightness preserve me, for I wait on thee.
Redeem Israel, O God, out of all his troubles.
Psalm 26
Judge me, O Lord, for I have walked in mine integrity.
I have trusted also in the Lord, therefore I shall not slide.
Examine me, O Lord, and prove me. Try my reins and my heart,
for thy loving kindness is before mine eyes, and I have walked in thy truth.
I have not sat with vain persons, neither will I go in with dissemblers.
I have hated the congregation of evildoers, and will not sit with the wicked.
I will wash mine hands in innocency.
So will I compass thine altar, O Lord, that I may publish with the voice of thanksgiving
and tell of all thy wondrous works.
Lord, I have loved the habitation of thy house, the place where thine honor dwelleth.
Gather not my soul with sinners, nor my life with bloody men,
in whose hands is mischief, and their right hand is full of bribes.
But as for me, I will walk in mine integrity.
Redeem me and be merciful unto me.
My foot standeth in an even place.
In the congregations will I bless the Lord.
Psalm 27
The Lord is my light and my salvation, whom shall I fear?
The Lord is the strength of my life, of whom shall I be afraid?
When the wicked, even my enemies and my foes, came upon me to eat up my flesh,
they stumbled and fell.
Though in hosts should encamp against me, my heart shall not fear.
Though war should rise against me, in this will I be confident.
One thing have I desired of the Lord that will I seek after,
that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life,
to behold the beauty of the Lord and to inquire in his temple.
For in the time of trouble he shall hide me in his pavilion.
In the secret of his tabernacle shall he hide me.
He shall set me up upon a rock.
And now shall mine head be lifted up above mine enemies round about me.
Therefore will I offer in his tabernacle sacrifices of joy.
I will sing, yea, I will sing praises unto the Lord.
Hear, O Lord, when I cry with my voice, have mercy also upon me and answer me.
When thou saidest, Seek ye my face, my heart said, unto thee thy face, Lord, will I seek.
Hide not thy face far from me, put not thy servant away in anger.
Thou hast been my help, leave me not, neither forsake me, O God of my salvation.
When my father and my mother forsake me, then the Lord will take me up.
Teach me thy way, O Lord, and lead me in a plain path because of mine enemies.
Deliver me not over unto the will of mine enemies, for false witnesses have risen up against me and such as breathe out cruelty.
I had fainted unless I had believed to see the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living.
Wait on the Lord, be of good courage, and he shall strengthen thine heart.
Wait, I say, on the Lord.
Psalm 28.
Unto thee will I cry, O Lord, my rock, be not silent to me, lest, if thou be silent to me, I become like them that go down into the pit.
Hear the voice of my supplications when I cry unto thee, when I lift up my hands toward thy holy oracle.
Draw me not away with the wicked and with the workers of iniquity, which speak peace to their neighbors, but mischief is in their hearts.
Give them according to their deeds, and according to the wickedness of their endeavors, give them, after the work of their hands, render to them their desert.
Because they regard not the works of the Lord nor the operation of his hands, he shall destroy them and not build them up.
Blessed be the Lord, because he hath heard the voice of my supplications.
The Lord is my strength and my shield, my heart trusted in him, and I am helped.
Therefore my heart greatly rejoiceth, and with my song will I praise him.
The Lord is their strength, and he is the saving strength of his anointed.
Save thy people and bless thine inheritance, feed them also, and lift them up forever.
Psalm 29.
Give unto the Lord, O ye mighty, give unto the Lord glory and strength.
Give unto the Lord the glory due unto his name.
Worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness.
The voice of the Lord is upon the waters, the God of glory thundereth.
The Lord is upon many waters.
The voice of the Lord is powerful, the voice of the Lord is full of majesty.
The voice of the Lord breaketh the cedars, yea, the Lord breaketh the cedars of Lebanon.
He maketh them also to skip like a calf, Lebanon and Sirion like a young unicorn.
The voice of the Lord divideth the flames of fire.
The voice of the Lord shaketh the wilderness, the Lord shaketh the wilderness of Kaddish.
The voice of the Lord maketh the hinds to calve and discovereth the forest.
And in his temple doth everyone speak of his glory.
The Lord sitteth upon the fly, yea, the Lord sitteth king forever.
The Lord will give strength unto his people, the Lord will bless his people with peace.
Psalm 30.
I will extol thee, O Lord, for thou hast lifted me up and hast not made my foes to rejoice over me.
O Lord, my God, I cried unto thee, and thou hast healed me.
O Lord, thou hast brought up my soul from the grave.
Thou hast kept me alive, that I should not go down to the pit.
Sing unto the Lord, O ye saints of his, and give thanks at the remembrance of his holiness,
For his anger endureth but a moment, and his favor is life.
Weeping may endure for a night, but joy cometh in the morning.
And in my prosperity, I said, I shall never be moved.
Lord, by thy favor, thou hast made my mountain to stand strong.
Thou didst hide thy face, and I was troubled.
I cried to thee, O Lord, and unto the Lord I made supplication.
What profit is there in my blood when I go down to the pit?
Shall the dust praise thee? Shall it declare thy truth?
Hear, O Lord, and have mercy upon me.
Lord, be thou my helper. Thou hast turned for me my mourning into dancing.
Thou hast put off my sackcloth and girded me with gladness to the end,
That my glory may sing praise to thee and not be silent.
O Lord, my God, I will give thanks unto thee forever.
Psalm 31.
In thee, O Lord, do I put my trust. Let me never be ashamed.
Deliver me in thy righteousness.
Bow down thine ear to me. Deliver me speedily.
Be thou my strong rock, for in house of defense to save me.
For thou art my rock and my fortress.
Therefore, for thy name's sake, lead me and guide me.
Pull me out of the net that they have laid privily for me.
For thou art my strength. Into thine hand I commit my spirit.
Thou hast redeemed me, O Lord God of truth.
I have hated them that regard lying vanities, but I trust in the Lord.
I will be glad and rejoice in thy mercy, for thou hast considered my trouble.
Thou hast known my soul in adversities and hast not shut me up into the hand of the enemy.
Thou hast set my feet in a large room.
Have mercy upon me, O Lord, for I am in trouble.
Mine eye is consumed with grief, yea, my soul and my belly.
For my life is spent with grief and my years with sighing.
My strength faileth because of mine iniquity and my bones are consumed.
I was of reproach among all mine enemies, but especially among my neighbors.
And a fear to mine acquaintance, they that did see me without, fled from me.
I am forgotten as a dead man, out of mine.
I am like a broken vessel, for I have heard the slander of many.
Fear was on every side while they took counsel together against me.
They devised to take away my life, but I trusted in thee, O Lord.
I said, Thou art my God.
My times are in thy hand.
Deliver me from the hand of mine enemies and from them that persecute me.
Make thy face to shine upon thy servant.
Save me for thy mercy's sake.
Let me not be ashamed, O Lord, for I have called upon thee.
Let the wicked be ashamed and let them be silent in the grave.
Let the lying lips be put to silence, which speak grievous things proudly and contemptuously against the righteous.
O how great is thy goodness, which thou hast laid up for them that fear thee,
which thou hast wrought for them that trust in thee before the sons of men.
Thou shalt hide them in the secret of thy presence from the pride of man.
Thou shalt keep them secretly in a pavilion from the strife of tongues.
Blessed be the Lord, for he hath showed me his marvelous kindness in a strong city.
For I said in my haste, I am cut off from before thine eyes.
Nevertheless, thou heardest the voice of my supplications when I cried unto thee,
O love the Lord, all ye his saints, for the Lord preserveth the faithful and plentifully rewardeth the proud doer.
Be of good courage, and he shall strengthen your heart, all ye that hope in the Lord.
Amen.